# Introduction
The manoeuvring performance of ships can be assessed in many ways, where model test with a free moving model is the most established and accurate method to confirm the compliance with the IMO standards. Going beyond the results from a model test campaign, looking at alternative scenarios with other speeds or entirely other manoeuvres or even bridge simulations, a prediction model is needed. The prediction model is usually developed with system identification. 
System identification aims at identifying a system from observations. If a parameterized model is further assumed, Parameter Identification Technique (PIT) can be applied. The system identification uses a PIT to identify the hydrodynamic derivatives (parameters) in a VMM. The VMM:s solves the equation of motion and models the hydrodynamic forces. 
The classical VMM:s (Abkowitz, 1964), (Clarke et al., 1982), (Nomoto et al., 1957) express the hydrodynamic forces as a function of the current state expressed as polynomials where the coefficients are called hydrodynamic derivatives. Most of the VMM:s where developed many year ago but there is also more recent development as the MMG model (Yasukawa and Yoshimura, 2015). 

## Objective/Goal
A system for ship manoeuvring should be identified based on model test data recorded as ship trajectories (position and heading) from manoeuvring model tests with a ship model free in all degrees of freedoms. The system is further assumed to be described by a Vessel Manoeuvring Model (VMM). The System identification can then be simplified into parameter identification of the assumed model. A Parameter Identification Technique (PIT) for this purpose is presented in this paper.

## Outline
The PIT algorithm is introduced in section 2 where each subcomponent is also described in detailed subsections. Section 3 shows how the PIT is applied on three test cases and all conclusions can be found in section 4. 
